Improve ML how-to guides (#3602)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/how-tos/detect-color.md

platformarea: ["ml"]
level: "Beginner"
date: "2022-12-16"
updated: "2024-10-20"
cost: "0"
---

WebRTC is a powerful technology that allows developers to build apps with video streams.
Adding computer vision allows machines to analyze images and gain meaningful information from video streams.
You can then program the machines to act based on this data, for example by alerting you.

Imagine a factory's storage unit.

> To get an idea of stock levels there are cameras, so someone can view the camera feeds to get stock levels rather than having to check in person.

Author: ```suggestion
To know what to restock, there are cameras, so someone can view the camera feeds to see stock levels rather than having to check in person.
```

Computer vision let's us do even better.

> The factory adds red paint to the walls of your factory at level where they need to restock.

Author: ```suggestion
The factory adds red paint to the walls of the factory at level where they need to restock.
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

{{% /expand %}}
{{% expand "Step 5: Test color detection" %}}

Click the **Save** button in the top right corner of the page to save your vision service configuration.

Now, test your color detection in the **Test** section of the computer vision service's configuration panel.

You will see your camera stream and see detections as labeled boxes on the images along with labels and confidence data:

![Detection of the color rose](/services/vision/rose-detection.png)

> If the color is not reliably detected, change the color detectors configuration.

Author: ```suggestion
If the color is not reliably detected, change the color detector's configuration.
```

Increase the **Hue Tolerance** or decrease the segment size.

> {{< alert title="Colors can vary dramatically based on the light source" color="tip" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< alert title="Colors can vary based on lighting" color="tip" >}}
```

## Next steps

You can now detect colors on a camera stream using any device and any webcam.

> You can also use the vision service with more sophisticated Machine Learning models.

Author: ```suggestion
If you want to detect obeckst, you can also use the vision service with more sophisticated Machine Learning models.
```
